[Dijkstra] CIP-159-11c: Prove LEDGER preservation of value (#1187) (#1203)
IntersectMBO/formal-ledger-specifications: src/Ledger/Dijkstra/Specification/Ledger/Properties/PoV.lagda.md

---
source_branch: master
source_path: src/Ledger/Dijkstra/Specification/Ledger/Properties/PoV.lagda.md
---

# Properties of `LEDGER`: Preservation of Value {#thm:LEDGER-PoV}

This module proves the top-level preservation-of-value (PoV) theorem for the Dijkstra
`LEDGER`{.AgdaDatatype} rule.  If

+  `Γ` is a ledger environment,
+  `tx` is top-level transaction, and
+  `s` and `s'` are ledger states related by `LEDGER`{.AgdaDatatype},

then `getCoin s ≡ getCoin s'`.

Recall (from `Ledger.lagda.md`) that `getCoin (LedgerState)` is

    getCoin (UTxOStateOf s)
    + coinFromRewards (CertStateOf s)
    + coinFromDeposits (CertStateOf s)
    + coinFromGovDeposit (GovStateOf s)

> This is the sum of UTxO coin, the cert-state rewards balance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the sum of UTxO coin, the `CertState`{.AgdaRecord} rewards balance
```

(`coinFromRewards`{.AgdaFunction}), the deposits from `DState`{.AgdaRecord},
`PState`{.AgdaRecord}, and `GState`{.AgdaRecord} (`coinFromDeposits`{.AgdaFunction}),
and the governance-action deposits (`coinFromGovDeposit`{.AgdaFunction}).

> Note `getCoin (CertState)` itself now sums the rewards balance *and* the deposit pots

Reviewer: What does it mean now?

(`coinFromRewards + coinFromDeposits`), so the two middle summands are exactly
`getCoin (CertStateOf s)`.

`getCoin` on a `LedgerState` has the four summands above — UTxO coin, rewards

> balance, the cert-deposit pots (`coinFromDeposits`), and the gov-action deposits

Reviewer: dash in the wrong place? cert-deposit pots cert deposit-pots. (I'd even remove it)

(`coinFromGovDeposit`) — and the `LEDGER-V` chain accounts for all four.  The cert
deposits cancel via the direct-deposit trick (see *Proof Strategy*), and the
gov-deposit growth `G' − G₀` is matched against the produced-side `totGov` (the
`gov-acc` lemma, from `SUBLEDGERS-gov-coin` + `GOVS-coinFromGovDeposit`).

??? note "**Status: complete**"

    `LEDGER-pov`{.AgdaFunction} typechecks end-to-end under `--safe` (no
    postulates or holes).  Following the top-down plan, this module proves only the
    top-level `LEDGER` preservation-of-value statement and leaves the supporting facts

>     as *module parameters*, discharged downstream:

Reviewer: So effectively there are holes
